#How do I prepare for GRE in 45 days?

If you are a prospective applicant aiming to pursue their Master’s in the United States, you’re probably familiar with the Graduate Record Examinations, or GRE. Having a good GRE score in your university application plays an extremely vital role in building your odds of securing admittance to your dream university, and you need just 45 days to make it happen. Here’s how:

##Day 0: Diagnostic Test

Before you kick-start your tireless exam preparations, always take a diagnostic test to help you resourcefully strategize and formulate a study plan based on your current standing. Not only do these tests help you assess your strengths and weaknesses, but they also help you gain familiarity with the exam pattern and the types of questions asked. Two full-length complimentary PowerPrep Practice Tests are available on the official ETS website, which simulates the actual GRE examination and are highly useful diagnostic measures.

##Day 1-15-30: Study Prep & Sample Sets

Layout a conducive study approach that works for you by analyzing your precursory mock test score. Your schedule should fill the gap between where you are and where you aim to be by strategically tackling all of the three sections in GRE. Dedicating an average of 2-3 attentive hours each day should generally suffice. Over the next 30 days, space out each section’s preparation by alternating them on different days, and try to follow the recommended resource guides for every section to improve your test outcome.

* 1. Verbal Reasoning

The Verbal section in GRE comprises three question types: Text Completion, Sentence Equivalence and Reading Comprehension. Begin with reading on how to approach verbal questions, and start solving sample sets of each question type. Gradually increase the number of questions you solve and their level of difficulty in subsequent weeks.

Magoosh’s Premium Portal offers several preparatory video lessons and useful practice questions that have proven beneficial.

Magoosh’s Vocabulary Builder app is a highly recommended source to learn new words and build a strong vocab. This free and interactive app is available on both Play Store and App Store and features 1000 words segregated into three difficulty levels: Basic, Intermediate and Advanced. A good strategy would be to keep alternate learning and revision days: learn 60-70 new words on each odd day, and revise those words on the subsequent even days.
Barron’s GRE book can also be referred to for intensive verbal preparation.

* 2. Quantitative Reasoning

This section has questions in the form of Quantitative Comparison, Problem Solving and Data Interpretation. Start by brushing up on math fundamentals, and progress through all topics schematically.
The 5lb Book of GRE Practice Problems by Manhattan is well-acclaimed as preparation material for Quantitative Reasoning. It includes 26 chapters which cover all the various topics under GRE, and one math practice section. One chapter a day with a revision of the previous chapters done, followed by solving practice sets will make you well-versed with all the concepts required to ace this section.

Another worthwhile resource material is Manhattan Prep’s Set of 8 GRE Math Strategies which covers all math concepts tested in GRE and provides a time=saving approach to solving specific questions.

* 3. Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)

AWA consists of two questions: one which asks you to analyze an issue while the other asks you to analyze an argument. Analytical Writing is scored on a scale of 0-6, unlike the other two sections which have a scoring range of 130 to 170. Though you can never know what essay topics you’ll get on the exam day, a helpful tip would be to understand the scoring pattern and what key points are expected in a high scoring essay. The ETS website lists examples of solved essay topics that have been evaluated with good scores which can be used as a reference.

## Day 31-45: Practice Tests

Devote your closing few days to solving as many full-length practice tests as you can. It is advisable to time your response for each section so you know how to avoid wasting precious minutes pondering over tricky questions during your actual exam. The Official GRE General Guide and Kaplan’s GRE Prep and Prep Plus are the best resource materials for this task. These tests will help you be thorough with all the various question types that generally appear in GRE, and will help you devise crucial time management strategies for your final test day.

The key to achieving a high GRE score lies in smart preparation, efficient time management, and an unwavering focus. Another essential point to remember is the significance of a good night’s sleep before your exam day in order to have the coherence of the mind. So gather your resources, make a resolute 45-day schedule and aim for that 340. All the best!
